updates doc on otel resource attributes promoted to labels (#10685)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/configure/configure-otel-collector.md

      exporters: [..., prometheusremotewrite]
```

## Work with default OpenTelemetry labels

> OpenTelemetry metrics use resource attributes to describe the set of characteristics associated with a given resource, or entity producing telemetry data. For example, a host resource might have multiple attributes, including an ID, an image, and a type.

Reviewer: The way I understand the paragraph, entity should be a synonym for resource, let's make it clear through a strategic comma:
```suggestion
OpenTelemetry metrics use resource attributes to describe the set of characteristics associated with a given resource, or entity, producing telemetry data. For example, a host resource might have multiple attributes, including an ID, an image, and a type.
```

> To optimize the storage of and ability to query this data, Mimir automatically assigns the following OTel resource attributes as labels at the time of ingestion, with periods (`.`) replaced by underscores (`_`):

Reviewer: Mimir has to be configured to do this, whereas in Grafana Cloud we have a default list of promoted resource attributes:
```suggestion
To optimize the storage of and ability to query this data, Mimir can be configured to automatically promote OTel resource attributes to labels at the time of ingestion, with periods (`.`) replaced by underscores (`_`). In Grafana Cloud, the following resource attributes are promoted:
```

Author: Great call out. I changed the wording a little, but went with the general idea here.

- `service.instance.id`
- `service.name`
- `service.namespace`
- `service.version`
- `cloud.availability_zone`
- `cloud region`
- `container.name`
- `deployment.environment.name`
- `k8s.cluster.name`
- `k8s.container.name`
- `k8s.cronjob.name`
- `k8s.daemonset.name`
- `k8s.deployment.name`
- `k8s.job.name`
- `k8s.namespace.name`
- `k8s.pod.name`
- `k8s.replicaset.name`
- `k8s.statefulset.name`

If you are using Grafana Cloud, contact support to disable this setting or to update this list.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}

> Some of these labels are mutually exclusive. If you don't need a particular label, you can aggregate it using Adaptive Metrics. For more information about Adaptive Metrics, refer to [Reduce metrics costs via Adaptive Metrics](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/cost-management-and-billing/adaptive-telemetry/adaptive-metrics/).

Reviewer: Does the note refer to the list of _resource attributes_ above (as opposed to labels)? Do you have examples of mutually exclusive ones? Not sure how to interpret the note.

If you are referring to resource attributes, why not avoid promoting them instead of aggregating the resulting labels away?

Author: Good catch, they are resource attributes. I actually think this note might add more confusion than clarity, and I'm going to remove it.

      exporters: [..., prometheusremotewrite]
```

## Work with default OpenTelemetry labels

OpenTelemetry metrics use resource attributes to describe the set of characteristics associated with a given resource, or entity producing telemetry data. For example, a host resource might have multiple attributes, including an ID, an image, and a type.

To optimize the storage of and ability to query this data, Mimir automatically assigns the following OTel resource attributes as labels at the time of ingestion, with periods (`.`) replaced by underscores (`_`):

- `service.instance.id`
- `service.name`
- `service.namespace`
- `service.version`
- `cloud.availability_zone`
- `cloud region`
- `container.name`
- `deployment.environment.name`
- `k8s.cluster.name`
- `k8s.container.name`
- `k8s.cronjob.name`
- `k8s.daemonset.name`
- `k8s.deployment.name`
- `k8s.job.name`
- `k8s.namespace.name`
- `k8s.pod.name`
- `k8s.replicaset.name`
- `k8s.statefulset.name`

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
Some of these labels are mutually exclusive.
{{< /admonition >}}

> To update this list, ...

Author: @aknuds1 and @jesusvazquez , could you please help me with this missing information? Thanks!

Reviewer 2: Right now the only way is to reach out through support and let us know so that we can modify how to do it.

Author: Thanks, updated!
